# title: 
	- Different negative control types harbor distinct contaminant profiles
# content: 
	- According to alpha analyses, there is no significant differences regarding the number of observed species among different control types. Notably, Shannon index in buffer control type is significantly greater than one in paraffin controls (p-value < 1e-3), suggesting more evenness distributed of taxa in the first type (Figure 1.B). Nevertheless, when the statistical test accounting for LP, there is no more significantly different (p-value = 0.25), suggesting that LP batch effect may contribute a major role in the contaminant profile. Furthermore, beta diversity reveals that NCT samples are heavily clustered with respect to control types, even after accounting for LP batch effect (Figure 1.C and table T1 in Supplementary).

# title: 
	- Many environmental taxa are found in NCTs, at varying abundance
# content: Next, to explore the biological origin of these bacteria, we focused on dominant genera in our NCT sample set  and revealed a mixture of well characterized environmental microbes and small portion of human commensals (Figure 1.D). For example, Sphingomonas, a ubiquitous environmental genus frequently detected in hospital and laboratory environments, was among the most abundant taxa in nearly all negative controls. In contrast, genera considered as normal flora from the oral cavity, like Haemophilus, Streptococcus, and Veillonella, were  high prevalent  less abundant in the NCTs suggesting an introduction of contamination by the LPs. This coexistence of environmental and human commensal taxa in negative controls requires a need for nuanced decontamination strategies, since an indiscriminate removal of all NCT-associated taxa risks eliminating clinically relevant tumor microbiome signals. Compared with the PCR control, the buffer control showed enrichment of several taxa, including Mesorhizobium terrae and multiple species in Burkholderia and Ralstonia genus, while a smaller set of taxa, including Prevotella histicola and Diaphorobacter aerolatus, were depleted (Figure 1.E). In the paraffin control, enrichment was dominated by species in Sphingomonas and Brevundimonas, whereas Diaphorobacter taxa, Prevotella histicola, and Diaphorobacter aerolatus were reduced relative to PCR. Overall, both control types revealed a clear mix of enriched and depleted features, but the buffer and paraffin control samples showed distinct microbial signatures compared with the PCR baseline. 
